Griffin's cry is too late. With no human expression of pain or submission to see, the mob is without mercy. It isn't a real person they are smashing to pieces, after all, just an invisible man.
The argument between Glaucon and Socrates still animates philosophy classrooms: is there an absolute basis for ethics, or is it socially constructed? But as a practical and scientific matter, the question may be moot. Human beings are hardwired in certain ways. We rely on visual cues for a host of social messages, and these messages maintain the scaffolding of inhibitions that allow civil discourse. Anything that makes us invisible and anonymous risks making us less human. and less humane to one another.
Of course, the online world has identity as well as invisibility. Commenters and bloggers build reputations for themselves, and those who remain anonymous are moderated, filtered, demoted, or simply ignored. More important, this mass experiment has proved that most people choose to be visible, and that new kinds of communities can flourish online. For some, disinhibition may be a cure for crippling shyness or a way to forge new alliances across barriers of race class, and geography. Unlike Griffin's invisibility, ours can be turned on and off at will, so perhaps it's more of a comic-book superpower than the maddening affliction in Well's novel. Of course, some people will always choose the route of the supervillain. They revel in hateful speech, bully the vulnerable, and incite real-world violence from a place of personal safety. In an era of virtual wealth, some evil geniuses plunder bank accounts-even entire economic systems-with little risk of being caught.
We can all be invisible now, if we want. We fling hats astray, and much more, without a great eal of consequence to ourselves. We can assemble a mob at a moment's notices, ready to powder glass if needed. So the fundamental question asked by "The Right of Gyges" adn The Invisible Man is as relevant as ever: will we use these powers for evil or for good?
-Scott Westerfeld