"I'd be bothered no end. I'd want to know the truth..."

"Yeah, of course. Back then, it bothered me, too. A lot. It hurt me, too. But thinking about it later, from a distance, after time had passed, it came to feel insignificant, not worth getting upset about. I felt as though it had nothing at all to do with the cream of life. "

Life is difficult as it is, and to aim to find peace in it, canoeing along wherever the rapids take us, is no easy task. What's worse is that many time, our very own thoughts betray us. They attempt to circle around an answer but never seem to grasp at it. Perhaps we should just try a little harder. Or perhaps there are question that simply cannot be answered. In fact, much of life is like the implausible circle. We are simply grasping at the non-existent.

I think to the time I was in high school upon reading this story. I recall my attempts at philosophic thoughts about life, motivation, goals. My conclusions, or lack thereof, are certainly not worth sharing. But they were the best I could do then, and this is the best I can do now. Perhaps I would've been best to not think too much. As a 17-year-old thrust into new environments and presented with new challenges, there was much to think about. And the circles that came about where much too difficult to get a grasp around. Perhaps I would've been better had I not dove so deep into my own thought. Thinking back, it is true. None of those ideas from back then amounted to any of the cream that I currently enjoy in life. But, "not thinking about anything might also be pretty hard."

The true beauty of a story lies not the the telling of the story itself, but in the Interpretation the reader bestows upon it. That much I am certain. Even now, as I reread passages of Cream I find different ideas of experience arise from the same words.

I know not of what events in Murakami's life lead to his revelation at conceiving this bewildering story. But I do know the events in my life that I speaks to. Many of my struggling attempts at answers in life have been in vain. But to know that there are words out there that capture ever ounce of the frustration, struggle, and perhaps joy, of thinking about circle's with infinite centers and no circumference, is closure enough.