Murakami's work has been the first to urge me to venture outside of native English literature in quite some time. Being bilingual, I understand first hand the awkwardness of meaning and artful language lost in translation. So I can only assume when I read foreign works translated into English, I am only experiencing but a fraction of what it could offer.

"On a Stone Pillow" hits my heart in inexplicable ways. There are so many subtleties and nuances of them, symbolism and meaning that I lack the cultural understanding to grasp. But one never needed to put a feeling  to words to be able to properly experience it. It is only when I attempt to capture my thought where I am at a lost for words.

Following an intimate sensual encounter, our narrator is lead to the discovery of a self-published work of tanka poems that an irresistible impression is left upon.Likewise, the story has left an inexplicable impression upon myself.

There are many themes coursing through the story. Where they meet, I do not know. So I would only like to think out loud and hope to capture my curiosity, not my interpretation:

First there is the theme of loving something inexplicably; Like the girl who loves the man who does not return the love, the narrator loves poetry written by the girl who has perhaps long forgotten him.

On the note of love, Murakami's intimate, almost voyeur-like, depiction of the inner psychological world of sex never fails to draw me in. I have been lead to believe Japan as a largely sexually conservative culture. So the unadulterated of Murakami is unexpected.  His descriptions are detailed yet not pornographic. They are descriptive yet not vulgar. And I find much beauty resting in those lines.

There is a quote in the story that speaks to if we want to create words, with some extended meaning, we must sacrifice our body and our heart for those words to endure. Here is where some subtlety exists. Geisha culture has some ties to the imagery of stone pillows, from what I can grasp through my initial research. Prostitution, or selling your body and innocence for something, is also a metaphoric device that I have encountered. For example, Yorushika (ヨルシカ) has a song titled 春ひさぎ that also makes use of it. Selling one's body and soul, stone pillows, sacrificing for one's art. There is something here that I have not yet grasped.