As a novice reader of Murakami's, I have not yet experienced his full range of fantastical storytelling. Though I've heard raving review of his magical realism with talking animals and dream-like scenarios. In "Confessions of a Shinagawa monkey", I sense I have received my first tasting of this layer of his storytelling.

The story follows the narrator's strange encounter with a talking monkey who tells of his fascinating backstory. The monkey tells of a story of being raised by humans (hence learning to speak), falling in love with humans, and seeking a forbidden connection to fulfill his urges of love and desire through stealing their names - nothing out of the ordinary.

During my reading, I try to take note of the emotions I feel as a result of the pages, hopeful to glimpse what I could possibly write about. At first, I thought it was about not belonging, the monkey not able to connect with its kind yet never to be fully accepted by humans either. Then I thought it a story about primal urges. In the silhouette of the monkey, I saw an introverted man, sexually frustrated, who simps for female attention and don't quite know how to deal with his male desires healthily. But, near the end of the story, the idea of theme come to the reader. A some what meta commentary on the story.

"Theme? Can't say there is one. It's just about an old monkey who speaks human language, who scrubs guests' backs in the hot springs in a tiny town in Gunma Prefecture, who enjoys cold beer, falls in love with human women, and steals their names. Where's the theme in that Or the moral?". But of course I refuse to think this as the answer. Or perhaps it simply is. Perhaps the "theme" of the story is to leave the reader perfectly perplexed, to build this perfect ambient in which the impossible isn't questioned.

I struggled to write something regarding a previous story as well. But I am surprisingly not flustered by it; Not flustered that nothing of significance came of my reading these stories. Perhaps the there is theme to these stories, I am certain of it. But nothing to worry for now. The existence of the feelings evoked are not dependent on my capabilities to vocalize them. This is the best I can do now. And I will leave it at that.